Decision Making in Python 3
Decision-Making is the anticipation of conditionx occuring during the execution of a progra, and specified actions taken according to the conditions.
Decision structures evaluate multiple expressions, which produce TRUE or FALSE as the outcome.
Python programming language assumes any non-zero and non-null values as TRUE, and any zero or null values as FALSE value.
Statements
if Statements - An if statement consists of a Boolean expression followed by one or more statements.
if...else statements - An if statement can be followed by an optional else statement, which executes when the boolean expression is FALSE
nested if statements - You can use one if or else if statement inside another if or else if statement(s)

IF statements
syntax

if express:
   statement(s)

In Python, statements in a block are uniformly indented after the : symbol. If boolean expression evaluates to FALSE, then the first set of code after the end of block is executed.

IF...ELIF...ELSE Statements
An else statement can be combined with an if statement. An else statement contains a block of code that executes if the conditional expression in the if statement resolves to 0 or a FALSE value.
The else statement is an oprional statement and there could be at the most only one else statement following if...else

The elif Statements
The elif statement allows you to check multiple expressions for TRUE and execute a block of code as soon as one of the conditions evaluates to TRUE.
elif statement is also optional however unlike else for which there can be at the most one statement, there can be an arbitrary number of elif statements following an if. 

Nested IF Statements
Is applied when you want to check for another condition after a condition resolves to TRUE.
In a nested if construct, you can have an if...elif...else construct inside another if...elif...else construct. Check out the code.
syntax

if expression1:
 statement(s)
 if expression2:
 statement(s)
 elif expression3:
 statement(s)
 else
 statement(s)
elif expression4:
 statement(s)
else:
 statement(s)

 Single Statement Suites
 If the suite of an if clause consists only of a single line, it may go on the same line as the header statement. E.g Check out an example in the code "singlestatement.py"